One of the easiest ways to start working with tags in AWS is
working with tags for cost allocation.
So let's spend a couple minutes just chatting about that.
What are cost allocation tags? Well, cost allocation tags allow
Cost Explorer to break down your billing report by tag. We can
map tags to different departments,
business units, or other cost centers inside your organization.
Maybe you have cost centers based on region, divisions inside
the company, or based on individual projects.
When working with cost allocation tags, we can use the AWS autogenerated
tags, such as createdBy, and we can also use user‑defined tags for cost
allocation tagging. Cost allocation tags are not enabled by default. They
have to be activated. And once activated,
you'll start see your bills broken down based on tags.
Now you might just use the AWS cost allocation tags,
but most of us want to use cost allocation tags to reflect our
organization's needs. To that end then, we use user‑defined tags.
These are tags that you define, create, and apply to resources.
Once you've created and applied tags,
they can then be activated as cost allocation tags
using billing and cost management.
You'll then see those tags using your cost allocation reports.
There are a couple of things to consider. Firstly,
do not include sensitive information tags.
These tags are going to be displayed on all sorts reports and might be
available to lots of people in your organization,
so any information that you don't want to be shared
should not go into cost allocation tags.
If your AWS account is part of a wider AWS organization,
then use the master AWS account in your organization
to enable cost allocation tags.
It's the master account that your consolidated billing account, and
when we enable cost allocation tags through here,
it guarantees that our bill can be broken down based on tags.
Now, an AWS organization is not required to enable cost allocation tags,
so you can just enable cost allocation on a single
AWS account by AWS account basis.
When you initially create tags that you then want to use for cost allocation,
bear in mind that those tags might not appear for cost allocation to
use for about 24 hours. So don't expect newly created and allocated
tags to be available for you straightaway.
Now, for the billing console,
you can perform a manual refresh, and this will speed up the process.
But even after you've instigated the manual refresh,
it will still take a bit of time for the new tags to appear in the
billing console. When you enable cost allocation tags,
they only started appearing on your cost allocation report from the point
you apply them. They do not appear in early reports.
So when you enable cost allocation tags, you won't be able to go through
historical reports and see those broken down based on tags.
They will only organize reports from the point where you enable a cost
allocation tag and then all reports going forward.
Now we've got an idea what cost allocation tags are, let's spend a few
minutes working with cost allocation tags through the console.
In this demonstration,
we're going to be working with cost allocation tags in AWS. We're going
to be working with the AWS Console, and to follow along with this
demonstration, you'll need your own AWS account.
Now we do encourage you to follow along with these demonstrations, but be
aware anything that you deploy to AWS can incur costs, so make sure anything
you do deploy is deleted when you no longer need it.
If you leave resources enabled and configured when you're not using them,
they will incur costs.
I'm back in the AWS Console,
specifically the Billing & Cost Management Dashboard. And here you can see
some general spending information. On the left‑hand side,
we can see Cost allocation tags, so let's select Cost allocation tags.
Two tabs here, User‑defined cost allocation tags and
AWS‑generated cost allocation tags.
As you can see, most tags are inactive.
If I scroll down to the bottom of the list here, we have
one tag environment that is active.
If you want to activate any of the tags for cost allocation,
you can select a tag.
So let's say we select application, and then if I scroll back up, we can say
Activate. And we get this message so we can activate again to confirm. If we
select the AWS‑generated cost allocation tags,
we can see a couple of tags that are activated,
autoscaling:groupName and aws:createdBy. If you've got time,
just have looked through this list to see some of the
autogenerated tags that AWS provider us with.
So let's see how we can use these tags. From the left‑hand side,
choose Cost Explorer, and then launch Cost Explorer. So here we can
see more detailed billing information,
like current month costs and forecasted month end costs.
If we select Cost Explorer from the left‑hand side, and then from
the filters list select Tag, and here we can see the cost
allocation tags that have been enabled.
Any newly enabled cost allocation tags will take a few minutes to appear.
So if I select the aws:createdBy tag,
we get a list of identities that have created resources.
So if I select one of those and click Apply filter, it filters that
apart based on that tag. And if I scroll across here, we can see that this user has spent all of 26 cents in September.